In the last couple of lectures we generated a Delete Post link which holds arguments like the action
and the post. And then we handled this URL request and deleted the posts but only if the user has the
permission to read the post.
But then we said if some malicious user knows this URL, he can't do anything with it because we check
if the user is logged in.
But you can be logged in and he can trick you into clicking into this link.
Maybe by sending in an email with this link and some button or something like that.
So by visiting this link the post will be deleted but you didn't really intend to delete it.
So to make sure that it's you who clicked this button and you were not forced into clicking it.
We'll use something called nonces.
So nonces basically another argument that we will send along with the action and the post. And this argument
will be a hash generated by WordPress using a certain function.
And then when we receive the request and the server we will verify that this hash is a valid one and
if not we will not perform any action.
So let's do it and we'll explain more while we're coding it.
So when we are constructing the URL, we need to add another argument.
So this another argument called "nonce".
And this will be generated by function called wp_create_nonce(). And it takes an action and this is the action
that you are performing.
So you can call it any arbitrary name.
So in our case you are deleting a post.
So let's call it, let's also prefix it to avoid any collision.
So "_themename_delete_post" and we can also add the IDs. So  "_delete_post_" and then the ID. This will
make our action more specific. So we now created the hash and the hash will contain some information
like the current user ID and the current session token and the session token is a token generated when
you log into WordPress and it's a unique token. If you log in with the same account but in another browser
the token will be different.
So it's a unique token for your current session.
And it also contains information about the time that this nonce was generated that.
And it also contains your action that you specified here.
So it's a hash string that contains all of these information and we'll send it.
And then when we are processing the form we will call another function or first we should make sure
that we have a nonce field. And if we don't have we should not perform any action.
So let's write another if condition. So "isset($_GET['nonce'])".
So if this value is not set or even if it's set we still need to verify that it's a valid nonce.
So we call a function called wp_verify_nonce(). And it takes the nonce itself, the hashed string
itself which is will be this one. And the action which we called "delete_post" and then the ID. So.
And the ID in this case will be the "post" in the $_GET array.
So if these conditions are not met
we will return, we will do nothing.
So now if you don't have a nonce field we will do nothing.
So even if we have this URL with the post and the action
it won't work unless you have a nonce field. And also this nonce field
even if it exists it should be a valid nonce field. So wp_verify_nonce() will  verify that this nonce field is
valid and not just any hash text. And at the moment however WordPress checks if it's valid or not.
And I'm sorry we have a typo here or we missed the "!" here we need to check that it is not a verified nonce
we need to return and not
And not a verified nonce.
So let's see now. So let's try and delete this.
And as you can see in the URL in the bottom left we have nonce field now.
And when we send this nonce field to the server it will confirm that it's a valid one.
And if yes it will delete the post.
So let's try. And it's deleted. So let's restore this one.
And now that, let's just copy this link.
Now if you have a user that somehow made us click on this link without the nonce field,
nothing would happen. Because there is no nonce field.
And even if he pass the nonce field it must be a valid one and he will never be able to generate a valid
one.
So if he write anything here, it will be invalid and nothing will be deleted.
So only if this is a valid field like this one. Now the "test 2" is deleted.
So the bottom line for this is that this link will now,
it will never work except if we pass a valid nonce. And nobody will be able to generate a valid nonce.
And to understand that let's took a look at the wp_create_nonce() and wp_verify_nonce() source codes.
So the generate_nonce() function. It will generate a hash using the wp_hash() function. And this hash will
consist of $i and $i is the result of wp_nonce_tick() function.
And wp_nonce_tick()  function returns a number which will remain the same.
It will only change every 12 hours. And you'll know why in a moment.
And then we have the $action. And this is the $action that we defined here.
And then we have the user id ($uid) and then we have the $token of the current session.
So this is what the nonce consist of.
So now when we create this nonce and we need to verify it on the server. We use wp_verify_nonce.
And what this will do is that it will reconstruct your hash using the $i and the $action and the $uid and the
$token.
And then if the two hashes are equal it will return 1 or 2.
Otherwise it will return "false".
So as you can see the information used here is very specific and it's impossible for anyone to be able
to generate a hash like this.
I just want to mention quickly that the 1 and 2. 1 will be returned if the nonce is generated from zero
to 12 hours ago and 2 will be returned
if the nonce is generated from 12 to 24 hours ago. So both values are true.
If you give 1 or 2 to an if condition it returns "true".
But that's just in case you want to know if the nonce is generated from 12 hours or more.
And that's the point of the wp_nonce_tick() function.
As I mentioned this function will increment by one every 12 hours.
So if you add the $i here when you're checking and the result matches the given nonce that means that this
nonce is generated from zero to 12 hours ago.
However if it matched $i-1 that means that the wp_nonce_tick() function is incremented by one.
And that means that 12 hour has passed since you generated the nonse that you give to the wp_verify_nonce()
function.
So I know this might be confusing so you can take a look and this function if you want. You don't have
to know the details of the nonce functions.
You just need to know how to use them. And I also put a link to a post here which contains some in-depth
information about nonces. So that was user roles and capabilities and nonces. And I created this introduction
section to these topics because we will use them in the next section when we start creating custom fields.
So see you in the next section.